>> Hello.
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I'd like to welcome you
to our healing series.
Today we're going to be talking
about healing with drama,
and how can that help us to
live in balance in mind, body,
and spirit.
Come join us on "Shakti-Hill."
[THEME MUSIC]
Healing with drama--
that's what we're
going to be talking about.
And who better to talk with it
about than John Maxwell Taylor,
British actor and playwright.
Welcome.
>> Well, thank you, Georgia.
Delighted to be here.
>> Well, this is exciting.
I saw that you were
going to be performing
"Forever Jung" locally.
[LAUGHS] Not young as in Y-O.
>> No, Jung.
>> Jung.
[LAUGHS]
>> Yeah.
>> And tell us about that.
What are you doing with that?
And you're going around
the United States
doing "Forever Jung."
>> Yes.
I'm in my third year
touring "Forever Jung."
It's the life-- the mystical
life journey of Carl Gustav
Jung, in which I play 20
different characters, including
Jung, his wife, his mistress,
Sigmund Freud, the prophet
Elijah, who appears to him
in a dream with Salome,
and the various inhabitants
of the lunatic asylum
he interned in, and so forth.
So it's quite a drama.
It deals with real people
and archetypes and dreams,
to tell this journey of him
from the cradle to the grave.
And he even comes back at
the end and sums it all up,
and what it all meant
from behind the scenes.
>> From the cradle to the grave.
>> Yes.
>> Well, you know, he
is a fascinating author.
And many books have been
written about him and by him.
And he has a real message.
And, as you are
doing this, you must
have felt that he was
one of your teachers.
>> Yes, I have.
I've often felt an
overlighting presence
when I've been doing it.
But any actor feels that.
Someone asked Charlton
Heston, did you
find God when you were playing
in "The Ten Commandments?"
And he said, well, I can't so I
walked on Sinai and found God.
But I did find Moses.
And if one can find the core of
the character one is playing,
particularly if it's a person
who has actually lived,
then that person does sort
of overlight you in a way,
or their living archetype does.
>> So tell us about Jung, as he
has become your friend and you
are expressing
information about him.
>> Well, Jung made this
wonderful statement that
reality lies at the point of
tension between the opposites.
So somebody once
said to me, well,
having played Jung for
so long, do you like him?
>> [LAUGHS]
>> And I said, yes and no.
Because we all have this
shadow side to our nature.
This is what Jung has brought
to our awareness, you see.
But it's very necessary
that we have that part
because everything works
on a form of electricity.
When you plug your lamp
into the wall, for example,
you have a positive charge
and a negative charge.
But if you remove one of
those prongs and stick it in,
the light won't come on.
So within us there are these two
currents of electromagnetism,
if you will, that are
there all the time.
We need both of
them for the light
to come on in our consciousness.
And Jung taught this sense of
self acceptance in which, yes,
you see all these
parts about yourself
that most people don't like.
Disown them, and
then project them
onto other people or nations
or subgroups within society.
But when we can re-own
that aspect to ourselves
and live comfortably
with it, then we
won't project it
onto other people.
It's really taking care of the
groundwork of spirituality.
>> So he serves as well in that.
Projection is one
of those things--
>> Projection.
>> --we want to get past.
>> Yes.
>> Also, his concept of
synchronicity was very
powerful.
And that is being used
and really honored
by so many people, as far as
on their path they will say,
well, there was a synchronicity.
>> Synchronicity, yes.
>> There is no coincidence.
And do you bring that out?
>> Well, this is a--
I think it's coming
out for all of us now.
We're seeing it in our
lives tremendously.
Yes, it is touched
upon in the play.
But what I have
found is because he
is the father of
synchronicity, if you will,
the man who coined the
phrase that The Police made
the album about and
that we are all now
incorporating into our
vocabulary, what is happening
as I travel around
doing the play--
it just becomes one
synchronistic experience
after another.
In fact, I am writing a
record of my journey with them
on the road called
"Synchronicity in Action
on the Stage of Life."
Because it's gotten to be so
just like that, all the time.
>> Oh, I bet.
>> Yes.
See, Jung's being--
I didn't quite
finish what I was saying before
when I said yes and no to Jung.
Because by accepting both
of the aspects of him,
I'm in touch with the being that
is the sum total of the man.
See, and this is a very
powerful living force
which anyone can tap into.
It's a healing force.
Everyone who is
aspiring spiritually
should have some
connection with Jung,
even if it's only reading
"Memories, Dreams,
Reflections," because
they will come
into a rapport with his
energy, and it can release
something powerful inside you.
>> Well, I've seen that in
a bibliography so many times
in other books.
So many people who are writing
now are tapping in to Jung.
And so we get it through
them, if not directly.
>> Yes.
>> Is that your favorite book?
>> It was my favorite
book about and by Jung,
which was actually dictated
to one of his associates.
But when I read
that book in 1972,
just before I went
to Findhorn, then
I felt that he was
actually-- his presence
was in the room with me.
And I was at a pivotal point
in my spiritual development
at that particular point.
And I needed to come
in contact with him,
so I could reclaim and
reopen all the primal aspects
of myself, and still retain my
spiritual visionary qualities.
And that's what he
helped me to do.
>> Well, you mentioned Findhorn.
And, oh, that is so
close to my heart.
I love Findhorn.
And we've mentioned at
different times on the show.
For people who have not been
there do not know about it,
Findhorn is--
>> Well, Findhorn is a
pioneering spiritual community
in the North of Scotland.
It was written up in the book
"The Secret Life of Plants."
Originally, it
was a garden where
the people who live there
cooperated with nature
to bring about this
incredible garden of flowers
and vegetables growing in
soils where they were not
supposed to grow.
But, when I arrived
there, that was sort of--
that phase was taken care of.
The whole community
was a metaphor
for the growing of souls.
>> Yes.
>> It's a greenhouse where
people became conscious.
And, while I was there, I was
in the performing arts group.
And that's where we pioneered
transformational theater.
In other words, a
form of drama that
helps the audience to have
an associative shifting
consciousness.
As you are doing your
drama on the stage,
the whole room goes
to another level.
>> Well, some people might
wonder why I asked you to do
part of our healing series.
But I believe we can
heal through drama,
and that is what you're doing.
>> Yes.
That is the original
purpose of it.
Yes.
And it's kind of
gotten off track now.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> It's more that meaningful
theater is often too often
about sort of permutations of
people's subconscious garbage.
You know, you never
gave me any recognition
and you never gave me
the-- that type of stuff.
Right?
>> Oh, the roleplaying.
[LAUGHS]
>> So you go on and on into
the labyrinth, which is what--
>> Yes.
>> But, really, the drama--
the struggle between the
yes and the no in people
should exist to suddenly
have a transcendent release
so that there's a fusion within
us, so that all the parts of us
become unified.
So the actors should be
unified with the parts
they are playing,
with each other
on the stage, unified
in consciousness
no matter what
the story's about.
And then this
unifies the audience.
And then, we are restoring
separation to unity.
>> Brings them in.
Ah.
OK.
>> Yes.
>> Now, you are going to
do and some excerpts from--
>> I will, actually.
>> --"UFOs, A Topic."
>> "UFOs."
>> He was a fun guy,
if he was into UFOs.
[LAUGHS]
>> Yes.
Well, in the play, a Scottish
interviewer asks him-- he says,
"Did you ever see a UFO?"
And Jung says, "I had an
interesting experience in 1958.
From the window of
the tower, I caught
sight of two gleaming, metallic,
lens-shaped objects that
hurtled over the
roof of the house
and across the lake
in a narrow arc.
They were UFOs.
Then, another
object came hurtling
towards me, a circular lens
with a metallic extension
that led to a box.
It stood still in the air,
some 60 or 70 yards away,
pointing straight at me.
And I suddenly
thought, we always
assume that UFOs are
projections of ours.
Now, it turns out that we may
well be their projections.
This magic lantern-- this UFO
is projecting me, CG Jung.
But who or what
manipulates the apparatus?"
And the interviewer says,
"I've often wondered,
did Jung believe in God?"
And Jung says, "I
don't need to believe.
I know."
>> Oh, that's powerful.
>> Thank you.
>> Yes.
Oh, I like that.
>> Good.
>> Ah, he was so interesting
in that he connected
the metaphysical and
the psychological.
And he knew there
was-- to him, he
knew also [LAUGHS]
that there was.
The I Ching was
one of the things
that he felt that had he
known earlier about it,
he would have spent
30 years studying it.
>> Yes.
As far as I'm concerned,
Jung was several things.
One, he was a mystic
of the highest order.
He had expanded consciousness.
He talks about this--
being able to feel himself
in the trees and the lake
and the sky, and so forth.
That's his expansion.
Yes, he was a scientist.
And he studied all different
aspects of human behavior.
But, I think he had to
disguise what he was somewhat
in the time, to try
to put-- try to put
his work in a language that was
acceptable to the world he was
working in, as a professional.
But no, from our point of view,
it's easy to see that he was--
he was totally over the top.
He was way ahead of us.
>> What time frame
did he live in?
>> I do you believe
it was 1879 to 1961.
I may be off a year or
two, but it's about that.
>> About that?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, OK.
You have another that
you're going to--
the second--
>> Another little bit?
>> Yes.
Emma Jung is a very
powerful figure in the play.
She's a lot of fun.
She has some of the best
zinging lines of the night.
So I'll do a little scene
between Jung and Emma.
>> OK.
Jung says, "Every man
carries within him
the eternal image of woman.
Not this or that
particular woman,
but a definite feminine image."
And Emma says, "And the
same is true of man.
She has an inborn image of man."
Sorry.
Emma says, "And the
same is true of woman.
She carries an
inborn image of man."
He says, "Animus
within the woman"
"Anima within the man."
Jung says, "Most of what men
say about female eroticism
and emotion is actually derived
from his own anima projection."
And Emma says, "And
astonishing assumptions women
make about men.
Their fantasies
about godlike heroes
are actually projections of
their own heroic element,
usually onto someone
quite unworthy
of being the object
of their adoration.
It's their own essence
that is the hero."
Then Jung says, "Emma, how can
I write with you hovering over
my intellect, like
a seagull following
a boat looking for scraps?
Find your own thoughts.
Go and write a book of your own.
I am not your holy grail.
You are."
>> Ah.
[LAUGHTER]
We are going to take a break.
And we will be
right back with more
of "Forever Jung," and
"Sociological Aikido,"
with John Maxwell Taylor.
John Maxwell Taylor
heals with drama.
Yes, "Healing With Drama,"
that is the name of the show.
[LAUGHS]
>> Yes.
>> And one of the programs that
you do is called "Sociological
Aikido."
>> "Secrets of
Sociological Aikido,
the Invisible Art of
Spiritual Self-Defense."
And how this ties in with
your theme today is that life
itself is
improvisational theater.
>> OK.
>> Every person that we meet
calls a different aspect of us
forth to deal with whatever
lines they wing at us.
Right?
So we're making it up as--
I think it was Ken
Wilbur who said recently,
God is winging it.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Right?
So we're called
upon to do the same.
And what my workshop
is about is being
able to make consciousness
for yourself when
friction is developing.
For example, we know that there
are many, many negative people
out there in the world--
people who are not
moving on the same
wave of transformation
that you and this
program is about.
And we, who are
working consciously
to transform
ourselves, often have
to deal with what I
call energy vampires.
>> I've heard that term before.
>> Yes.
These are people who cannot
get life energy for themselves
through their chakras, from the
air, from the food they eat,
naturally.
They need to get it
pre-digested from somebody else.
So they see us, and
they unconsciously
will create a
situation where they
can-- because energy can
only flow a longer light
correspondence.
If you were up here and
somebody is negative
and they want to
get energy from you,
they have to bring you down so--
to that level, so that
it can fuse with them.
Have you ever noticed when
somebody is fractious with you,
starts an argument,
and then you lose it--
the mythical it--
and they walk away
with a smirk on their face?
Because it's like the cat
that just ate the canary.
>> Well, I've had people I know
that have sort of been drawn
to me.
And they would come and they
would tell me everything bad
that's going on in their life.
And they can walk away
feeling wonderful.
And then I used to be like, ah.
And I realized
that was happening.
That's what you're
talking about--
>> It is.
>> --people who are drawn to
you because of your light.
And they use your energy.
>> Yes.
That is one scenario.
The other is that they see your
light and they recoil from it,
and try to cancel it
out by withholding
their own energy from you,
stealing energy by ignoring.
It says somewhere in
the Bible, I believe,
being themselves obscure,
they endure no light.
Right?
So whatever is the situation
is, when we feel that shift
in the dynamic of
the room around us,
by doing certain
centering exercises,
by grounding ourselves in the
earth and trying to feel all
of our body, all of our
mind, and all of our emotions
simultaneously-- our emotional
nature, the three bodies--
bang.
The tension of the
situation can create
a fusion within ourselves that
makes a very rooted sense.
It's almost if your spine become
like a steel rod around which
your energy magnetizes.
And then, you're in such a
state that your intuition
will suddenly receive
exactly the thing
to say to clear
up that situation.
What we're looking for is to
try to have reconciliation
with people.
Right?
You're affirming,
they're denying.
You want reconciliation.
Now you can do this by looking
in the soul eye of a person.
One person's eye
reflects the soul.
The other reflects
the personality.
So if you look
into the soul eye,
then you'll be able to draw
that their essence out.
If you look into
the personality eye,
you're sending a
message that says uh-uh.
You put that false
personality aspect of them
on hold for a second while you
reach in and pull out the soul.
And you have a fusion with them.
>> OK.
And that's a different
level of connecting.
Yeah.
>> It's a different
way of connecting, yes.
>> But you're asking
us to be conscious--
>> Conscious.
>> --about the way we are
feeling, how we're reacting,
the energy around us, and
how we're handling that.
>> And hold our field-- because
if we don't, we're not living
and demonstrating that all this
consciousness transformation
stuff is so wonderful.
Because if we can get
blown out of the--
just over by a negative
force of somebody
who's not working
consciously on themselves,
that means we've not yet come
to a level of self-mastery that
is demonstrating the value
of what we're talking about.
So I believe in organic
self-transformation,
that we root ourselves
in the body, the mind,
and the emotions, feel
the soul within it,
and connect with the Earth.
And then we have all the help.
We've got support from below
and support from above.
And it meets here in the middle,
and then we radiate that out.
>> So we come back into balance,
is basically what it is.
>> Yes.
>> OK.
But you say then, there's
a wonderful energy flow
that stays within us.
>> Yes.
>> OK.
Some people probably have
never thought of that.
And now, you've sort of
awakened a little idea
with this energy vampire,
which is one way to say it.
But it is where you are
uncomfortable in someone else's
energy, and you don't know why.
>> Right.
>> There is a shift.
>> There's a shift.
Yes.
It can mean that their chakras
are shut down, that they
have emotional armor on that--
and many of their things
in the past history
can cause a person to
be the way they are.
But we're still dealing
with the divine being.
So what we want to do
is to try to neutralize
the imaginary pictures the
person has of themselves
and you, which they tried to
stick you with, by the way.
So when we don't have an
immediate reaction to that
and fall into personality
behavior ourselves--
false personality
behavior-- then, there's
a momentary gap is created.
And in that moment there,
by remembering ourselves,
there can be a fusion with
our ordinary consciousness
and the real eye--
that which is within
us all the time, which
is permanent and perfect
within all of us,
but which we are asleep
to most of the time.
>> And you say then, we know
exactly what we need to say.
Because we've come back
to center, and so our--
>> That's right.
>> --intuition can flow
to us and through us.
>> That's right.
I have to say this
at the outset.
It's not done with the head.
We are living in a
world of talking heads.
The center of gravity
of 90% of the human race
now is centered up
here, in the head.
Right?
So we need to center in
here and in the heart,
and root ourselves--
and the stomach.
Root ourselves
down in the earth.
>> Is that where we
feel it, the upset?
Does it come in the solar
plexus and the heart?
>> Yeah.
Gets you through
the solar plexus.
>> When you're in
that negative energy,
that's what you listen to?
>> You have that sudden
gone-- if you fall into it,
the delusion, you have this
gone feeling in your stomach.
And all your magnetism
flies away into the night.
But when you remember and come
to presence within yourself,
then not only your positive
magnetism goes back
to the center, the
positive energy
underlying their negativity
flies to you, as well.
So, basically, you eat
the situation alive.
When I see a troublemaker
coming, I think, oh, good.
Here comes lunch.
>> [LAUGHS] And you call this
"The Secrets of Sociological"--
>> Yes.
"Secrets of
Sociological Aikida."
It's a seminar I teach, and
I have audiotapes about it.
And I'm trying to
finish my book on it
and get that out next year.
But I have wonderful results.
When people come to my workshops
and I'd pair off with them
and show them how to do this--
I'll have somebody
get on the stage
and insult me and show how
it doesn't affect me, at all.
Then I'll show everybody in
the audience how to do that.
I don't have them
insult one another.
But they'll just say negative
things like worms, death,
income tax, and so forth.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> And it's water--
it doesn't matter to them.
It's like you're hearing it,
but it doesn't have a triggering
response mechanism.
So you don't lose
emotional power.
And people feel this building
up inside of themselves.
And I get wonderful feedback.
Months after, people
say, you know,
I still use that every day.
And it works with my boss.
It works with my kids.
>> Yes.
Would Jung have
approved of this?
>> Oh, yeah, I believe so.
But he was a master
of this, himself.
Joe Henderson, who wrote the
book "Man and His Symbols,"
said to me, of
Jung, that when he
met Jung he had
the impression came
to him with tremendous force--
this man is the
living embodiment
of what a human
being can become.
That's the charged up energy
field that Jung inhabited.
But that's what we're
all meant to be.
>> Yes.
>> And we have to
be on every level.
Because we have to
go, as Yogananda once
said, to stand unshaken amidst
the crash of falling worlds.
Worlds are falling out
there because people are not
making the paradigm shift.
People who can't make that,
the tension is unbearable.
So we need to be
strong and rooted,
so that we can, with
our subtle energy field,
influence those in our
immediate environment
to come in harmony
with the spirit.
>> You have another thought from
Jung that you will share with
us.
>> Another thought, yes.
>> And this is beautiful.
This is about--
>> This Jung's
summation of love.
It comes towards the end of--
I guess I don't need
the pipe for this.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> He's all smoked
out by this time.
>> OK.
>> Love bears all things.
Love endures all things.
Nothing more can be said.
We are, in a sense, the victims
and the instruments of a love
we cannot grasp.
And, yet, we are at its mercy.
For we cannot live without it.
We may rebel.
We may assent.
And, yet, we are
always enclosed by it.
Any man with a grain of
wisdom will lay down his arms
and surrender to it--
an act of humility,
an act of subjection.
Name it what you
will, such an act
will be testimony to
our freedom to choose
between error and truth.
There we go.
>> The essence of
the man's message.
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> Now, how has
this affected you,
sharing this over and
over and over again?
>> Well, somebody once asked
me how I felt when I came off
stage.
And I immediately
said, integrated.
>> Ah.
>> That is what it is about.
It's about integrate-- to accept
every aspect of ourselves,
so that the core of
undifferentiated self
around which the whirlwind of
personality activity revolves
is present to us all the time.
See, I even talk like Jung
when I'm not being him now.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Well, his individuation--
is that path--
that is what he called
our own personal growth?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> He wouldn't have put
it quite in those terms,
but that's what it leads to.
And Jung, like
any great teacher,
will speak to every
individual in a personal way
according to their
particular needs.
What we have to do is to just
open ourselves up and want
to know the secret
core of ourselves,
and to live in harmony
with all the varied--
isn't it wonderful
that life is so varied,
like the piano keyboard
that has the black notes.
Wouldn't a symphony be awful
if it was all white notes?
See?
So there are the black notes
in there with the white ones.
And together, it makes this
wonderful sound that we love.
Well, it's the same with us.
We need to be able to play
off the notes of ourselves,
so that it creates a wonderful
harmony of the whole.
And then we have the end of it.
>> I like that.
If you would like to be in
touch with John Maxwell Taylor,
stay tuned.
And, also, we would love
to hear from you, too.
So you will be able
to find out how you
can be in touch with us, too.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Ah, yes.
We are actors on a
stage, are we not?
Life is a drama.
And if we can heal with life's
drama, how wonderful how
that can help us
to live in balance.
Until next time, may you be
well, happy, and peaceful.
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
[THEME MUSIC]